# Infra Setup with Terraform

This code base sets up an infrastructure on AWS using Terraform. Nginx is also deployed as a docker container and configured on the EC2 instance.
This code base also deploys a NodeJS-Express application docker container that delivers the health check and resource usage of the `nginx` docker container via REST API.

### Infrastructure Components
The infrastructure on AWS has the below components.
* A VPC
* A Subnet on a Single Availability Zone(defaults to us-west-2a)
* An internet gateway and associated route table and routes
* A Security group that allows HTTP access to the EC2 instance on Port 80.
* An EC2 instance(defaults to t2.micro)

### Application Components

* A health check script that runs every 10 seconds.
    * It checks if the nginx server is responding to requests on port 80.
    * It collects the resource usage of the `nginx` docker container.
    * Both of the health check outputs are stored in `/etc/resource.log`.
* A simple REST API app with NodeJS and Express.
    * This application serves the file `/etc/resource.log` created by the above health check script on `<ec2_public_ipv4_dns>/logs` via the nginx proxy.

### Security

* The application is hosted inside a VPC in AWS.
* The EC2 security group can be locked down so that it can only be accessed from specific IP CIDRs. Check the `ingress_cidr` terraform variable that you can set.
* Firewalld has been installed on EC2 instance to improve security.
## How to deploy

### Pre-requisites

* [Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli).
* AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY (This should be either given as an input to terraform while deploying or should be exported as environment variables).
    * This can also be configured in a file with `.tfvars` extension in this project directory.
* A AWS private key(*.pem) downloaded.

### Deploy Steps
* Run `terraform -v` to make sure that terraform is installed.
* From the project root directory run `terraform init` to initialize provider plugins.
* Now run `terraform apply`. This will start the deploy and should ask you to input the required variables.
    * You can provide the values according to the prompts or provide variables on command line or create a file with `.tfvars` extension. [Offical Guide](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/variables.html#variables-on-the-command-line)
    ``` bash
    $ terraform apply -var-file secrets.tfvars # OR
    $ terraform apply -var="aws_access_key=AXXXXXXXXXAA" -var="aws_secret_key=xxxxxxxxxxxx"  -var="aws_region=ap-southeast-2"
    ```
* After `terraform` has completed the deploy, the console should show an `application_url` as an output.

### Using the REST API to search the log file

The Node App exposes a REST API to view the `resource.log` file generated by the health check script. This log has the health check status of the `nginx` service on port `80` and the resource usage of the `nginx` docker container.

The REST API allows you to search for data inside the `resource.log`. Think of this as doing a normal `grep` on the `resource.log` file but this time from your web browser.
The query key that you should use for this is, `grep`. You should be able to use any flags as you would normally use while using the `grep` tool in linux.

Examples:

    `http://ec2.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com/logs?grep=nginx`
    `http://ec2.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com/logs?grep=-A1 -B1 HTTP`

### Terraform Variables

The below table shows the variables you should set/can override.
| Variable   |      Description      |  Required/Optional |
|----------|:-------------:|------:|
| `aws_access_key` |  `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` for your AWS account | Required |
| `aws_secret_key`|    `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` for your AWS account   |  Required |
| `aws_region` | AWS region where you want to deploy the infrastructure |   Required |
| `key_name` | Name of your EC2 Key Pair |   Required |
| `key_path` | Local path for your EC2 key pair |   Required |
| `availability_zone` | AWS Availability Zone |   Optional(Defaults to `us-west-2a`) |
| `ingress_cidr` | Ingress CIDR for your EC2 Security Group |   Optional(Defaults to the whole internet `0.0.0.0/0`) |
| `instance_type` | EC2 instance type | Optional(Defaults to `t2.micro`) |

## Application Risks

* The NodeJS Application uses `child_process` which allows the application to execute shell commands on the host.
* The REST API basically allows user to run shell commands on the host which can be used in malicious ways.

## Future Improvements

* Write a full fleged text file parser to serve the data via REST API instead of executing commands on the host machine.
* Host the EC2 instance on private subnet and allow access to the external world via a application load balancer.
* Host EC2 instances on different availability zones to ensure High Availability.
* Build a pipeline to deploy this.

# Sample Output from the REST API

```
HTTP / 1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx / 1.19.6
Date: Thu, 17 Dec 2020 05:36:48 GMT
Content-Type: text / html
Content-Length: 612
Last-Modified: Tue, 15 Dec 2020 13:59:38 GMT
Connection: keep-alive
ETag: "5fd8c14a-264"
Accept-Ranges: bytes

CONTAINER ID NAME CPU% MEM USAGE / LIMIT MEM% NET I / O BLOCK I / O PIDS
d33bb7b6e7a3 nginx 0.00% 2.488MiB / 983.3MiB 0.25% 1.81kB / 648B 9.5MB / 0B 2
```
